                                README

  PyLoad is a power saver utility. It displays machine usage statistics, and
it is able to put the system to sleep. Additionally, when a processor power is
sufficiently low for a timeout period, it can execute a program.

  Pyload will monitor keyboard activity, mouse activity, disk activity, network
activity, processor usage. It will put the system to sleep after a specified
timeout. Finally a power saver that does not kill the system in the middle of a
download or in the middle of a compile session.

  Pyload can be run as an applet. After installation, PyLoad can be added
to the Gnome Panel by right clicking on the Panel, and selecting 'Add to Panel'
From the dialog select 'Pyload' and click on the Add button.

  PyLoad is highly configurable. You may configure idle threshold,
processor idle timeout, sleep timeout. You may specify program to execute on
idle keyboard timeout. Processor, disk and network activity is considered idle
if traffic is less than idle threshold.

 Pyload will successfully put systems to sleep that fail under the standard
GUI utilities. Perhaps the kernel method became more robust then the older
alternatives.

 The command line option '-t <minutes>' specifies the sleep timeout in minutes.
Minutes can be between 1 to 120.

 To install PyLoad, execute 'sudo ./install.py' or 'sudo make install'
Pyload will run from the system panel as a regular user, elevating privileges
as needed. PyLoad surrenders privileges on startup, and only elevates it when
it a accesses the mouse/key/disk/net usage. 

The PyLoad Graph has the following color allocation:

    Dark Gray:      CPU
    Green:          CPU (Low Pass filtered)
    Blue:           Network Activity
    Yellow:         Disk Activity

 The activities are expressed in % to maximum used capacity. This may not be 
total capacity, as PyLoad adapts to observed maximum capacity.

    See source for details.

 To run pyload from a script without a pass, add the following line to the
file /etc/sudoers: (this is done by the install script)

ALL     ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/pyload.py


