                                 README
                                
 Welcome to the simplest EBOOK reader PyEPUB. It literally reads the books out 
loud for you.

 The PyEPUB reader was built to fill a gap in the reader landscape. It uses the
freely available FESTIVAL text to speech for reading text in human voice.
 
 PyEPUB will interpret the EPUB format, and optionally can be used as a simple 
HTML reader.

 PyEPUB is simple. It  attempts to follow standards as  accurately as possible. 
It is meant to be a text reader, so the  textual information of an  EBOOK is 
at focus. To this end, only a small subset of the HTML  language is implemented,
only  tags  relevant  to  displaying  text and navigation are dealt  with. Some
rudimentary imaging support is included, Metaphorically expressed, just enough
support to display Einstein's Relativity formula images. PyEPUB displays unknown 
tags as plain text. No content is lost due to complex formatting / markup.

 PyEPUB can be driven from the command line. Use the -h option to list command
switches available. 

Notable switches are: 

        '-a' to read an EBOOK with TTS; 
        '-f' for starting PyEPUB full screen
        '-k' to show key assignments

 When loading an EPUB file, PyEPUB will attempt to position the cursor to the 
place were you left off on previous read. This makes it extremely  convenient to 
use PyEPUB.  

 When reading an EPUB file, PyEPUB will allow you to navigate freely with the 
usual control keys. But navigation can be done with just the space bar. When
the current document is at its end, it will load the next document as it 
appears in the table of contents.

 Listing the Author / Title of a document with PyEPUB can be done with the -t
command line switch. Listing all ebook titles in your home directory can be 
done like this:

     find ~ -name \*.epub -exec ./pyepub.py -tpn {} \;
     
 The above command line will show all ebook file names, authors and titles 
in your home directory. The -p option prints the file name, the -n option 
prevents the GUI from starting and the -t option lists the author and title.
Note the backslash semicolon at the end of line for the exec option. Just as an
idea starter, you may the output of locate to list all your ebook titles.

 PyEPUB uses PyGTK for display and Festival for text reader. These packages 
are widely available, and most distributions install them by default. See 
the file FESTIVAL for more info on the TTS subsystem.

 PyEPUB is installed on Community Linux with a rudimentary set of free EBOOK
samples like Einstein's relativity, War and Peace and similar works.
 
 PyEPUB is multi platform, will run everywhere where PyGTK runs.
                                 

