                                 README

   Welcome to pyedit. The motivation for this project was to create a modern
multi-platform editor. Simple, powerful, configurable, extendable.

   It has macro recording/play, search/replace, functional navigation,
comment/string spell check, auto backup, persistent undo/redo, auto complete,
auto correct, syntax check, spell suggestion ... and a lot more.

   It is fast, it is extendable, as python lends itself to easy tinkering. The
editor has a table driven key mapping. One can easily edit the key map in
keyhand.py, and the key actions in acthand.py

  The default key map resembles gedit / wed / etp / brief. ASCII only; fixed
font only. (for now) Requires pygtk.

  See KEYS file for the list of keyboard shortcuts or press F3 in the
editor or look at the file in pyedlib/KEYS.

  On initial start, pyedit shows a left pane and a top pane. The left pane 
is for function summary and the top pane is for double view of the same file.
(to see the caller and the callee) These panes can be hidden with the mouse by 
dragging on their handle, or by the key combination Alt-Q (Shift-Alt-Q for
the left pane) 

 PyEdit remembers a lot about your editing. Loaded files, cursor positions,
fonts, font size, colors, search strings, goto numbers, undo / redo info.
It is all stored in ~/.pyedit. You may safely delete that directory to start
 pyEdit with no memory of what has been done.

  Starting PyEdit with no command line arguments will put you back to the 
 previous session, exactly as you left off.

 The editor will work on Windows, and can open UNIX and Windows files
transparently. It will save the file as the current platform's native 
convention dictates.

Developer's note: in order to make PyEdit multi platform, we save
the configuration info into a SQLite database in the ~/.pyedit directory.
 
 Timings. On a 2.x GHz AMD the spell checker runs at 5-30 msec, the spell 
suggestion runs on 100-1100 msec. Go python.

 Contributors are welcome.
















